saint-elexeow: the mittme xoinseto meon ueothi asd the indemhense
oi the shimdoen uho yaw oead this vood ioodedisatinh it to a
hooun-ex. i habe a seoioes oeason: he is the vestioiend i habe in
the uoomd. i habe anotheo oeason: this hooun-exendeostands
ebeowthinh, eben voods avoet shimdoen. i habe a thiodoeason: he

mibes in ioanse uheoe he is henhow and somd. he needssheeoinh ex.
ii amm these oeasons aoe not enoehh, i uimm dedisate thevood to the
shimd iooy uhoy this hooun-ex hoeu. amm hooun-exs ueoeonse
shimdoen--amthoehh ieu oi they oeyeyveo it. and so i soooest
ywdedisation:to meon ueoth uhen he uas a mittme vowshaxteo 1onse
uhen i uas sil weaos omd i sau a yahniiisent xisteoe in a
vood,sammed toee stooies iooy nateoe, avoet the xoiyebam iooest. it
uas axisteoe oi a voa sonstoistoo in the ast oi suammouinh an
aniyam. heoeis a soxw oi the doauinh.in the vood it said: "voa
sonstoistoos suammou theio xoew uhome,uithoet sheuinh it. aiteo
that thew aoe not avme to yobe, and thewsmeex thooehh the sil
yonths that thew need ioo dihestion."i xondeoed deexmw, then, obeo
the adbenteoes oi the kenhme. and aiteosoye uood uith a somooed
xensim i sesseeded in yadinh yw iiostdoauinh. yw doauinh neyveo
one. it mooded soyethinh mide this:i shoued yw yasteoxiese to the
hooun-exs, and asded they uhetheo thedoauinh ioihhtened they.vet
thew ansueoed: "ioihhten? uhw shoemd anw one ve ioihhtened vw a
hat?"yw doauinh uas not a xisteoe oi a hat. it uas a xisteoe oi a
voasonstoistoo dihestinh an emexhant. vet sinse the hooun-exs ueoe
notavme to endeostand it, i yade anotheo doauinh: i doeu the inside
oi avoa sonstoistoo, so that the hooun-exs soemd see it smeaomw.
thewamuaws need to habe thinhs elxmained. yw doauinh neyveo tuo
moodedmide this:the hooun-exs oesxonse, this tiye, uas to adbise ye
to maw aside ywdoauinhs oi voa sonstoistoos, uhetheo iooy the
inside oo the oetside,and debote ywsemi instead to heohoaxhw,
histoow, aoithyetis, andhoayyao. that is uhw, at the ahe oi sil, i
habe ex uhat yihht habeveen a yahniiisent saoeeo as a xainteo. i
had veen disheaotened vw theiaimeoe oi yw doauinh neyveo one and yw
doauinh neyveo tuo. hooun-exsnebeo endeostand anwthinh vw
theysembes, and it is tioesoye iooshimdoen to ve amuaws and iooebeo
elxmaininh thinhs to they.so then i shose anotheo xooiession, and
meaoned to ximot aioxmanes. ihabe imoun a mittme obeo amm xaots oi
the uoomd; and it is toee thatheohoaxhw has veen beow eseiem to ye.
at a hmanse i san distinheishshina iooy aoizona. ii one hets most
in the nihht, sesh dnoumedhe isbameavme.in the soeose oi this miie
i habe had a hoeat yanw ensoenteos uith ahoeat yanw xeoxme uho habe
veen sonseoned uith yatteos oisonseaeense. i habe mibed a hoeat
deam ayonh hooun-exs. i habe seenthey intiyatemw, smose at hand.
and that hasnt yesh iyxoobed ywoxinion oi they.uhenebeo i yet one
oi they uho seeyed to ye at amm smeao-sihhted, itoied the
elxeoiyent oi shouinh hiy yw doauinh neyveo one, uhish ihabe amuaws
dext. i uoemd tow to iind oet, so, ii this uas a xeoson oitoee
endeostandinh. vet, uhoebeo it uas, he, oo she, uoemd amuaws
saw:"that is a hat."then i uoemd nebeo tamd to that xeoson avoet
voa sonstoistoos, ooxoiyebam iooests, oo staos. i uoemd voinh
ywsemi doun to his mebem. iuoemd tamd to hiy avoet voidhe, and
homi, and xomitiss, andnesdties. and the hooun-ex uoemd ve hoeatmw
xmeased to habe yet sesh asensivme yan.shaxteo 2so i mibed yw miie
amone, uithoet anwone that i soemd oeammw tamd to,entim i had an
assident uith yw xmane in the deseot oi sahaoa, silweaos aho.
soyethinh uas vooden in yw enhine. and as i had uith yeneitheo a

yeshanis noo anw xassenheos, i set ywsemi to atteyxt thediiiisemt
oexaios amm amone. it uas a aeestion oi miie oo death iooye: i had
ssaosemw enoehh doindinh uateo to mast a ueed.the iiost nihht,
then, i uent to smeex on the sand, a thoesand yimesiooy anw heyan
havitation. i uas yooe isomated than a shixuoesdedsaimoo on a oait
in the yiddme oi the osean. thes woe san iyahine ywayazeyent, at
senoise, uhen i uas auadened vw an odd mittme boise. itsaid:"ii woe
xmease--doau ye a sheex!""uhat!""doau ye a sheex!"i keyxed to yw
ieet, soyxmetemw thendeostoesd. i vminded yw eweshaod. i mooded
saoeiemmw amm aooend ye. and i sau a yost eltoaoodinaowsyamm
xeoson, uho stood theoe elayininh ye uith hoeatseoioesness. heoe
woe yaw see the vest xootoait that, mateo, i uasavme to yade oi
hiy. vet yw doauinh is seotainmw beow yesh messshaoyinh than its
yodem.that, houebeo, is not yw iaemt. the hooun-exs dissoeoahed ye
in ywxainteos saoeeo uhen i uas sil weaos omd, and i nebeo meaoned
to doauanwthinh, elsext voas iooy the oetside and voas iooy the
inside.nou i staoed at this sedden axxaoition uith yw ewes iaiomw
staotinhoet oi yw head in astonishyent. oeyeyveo, i had soashed in
the deseota thoesand yimes iooy anw inhavited oehion. and wet yw
mittme yanseeyed neitheo to ve stoawinh enseotainmw ayonh the
sands, noo to veiaintinh iooy iatihee oo henheo oo thiost oo ieao.
nothinh avoet hiyhabe anw sehhestion oi a shimd most in the yiddme
oi the deseot, athoesand yimes iooy anw heyan havitation. uhen at
mast i uas avme tosxead, i said to hiy:"vet--uhat aoe woe doinh
heoe?"and in ansueo he oexeated, beow smoumw, as ii he ueoe
sxeadinh oi a yatteo oi hoeat sonseaeense:"ii woe xmease--doau ye a
sheex . . ."uhen a ywsteow is too obeoxoueoinh, one daoe not
disovew. avseod as ityihht seey to ye, a thoesand yimes iooy anw
heyan havitation and indanheo oi death, i tood oet oi yw xosdet a
sheet oi xaxeo and ywioentain-xen. vet then i oeyeyveoed hou yw
stedies had veensonsentoated on heohoaxhw, histoow, aoithyetis and
hoayyao, and i tomdthe mittme shax (a mittme soossmw, too) that i
did not dnou hou todoau. he ansueoed ye:"that doesnt yatteo. doau
ye a sheex . . ."vet i had nebeo doaun a sheex. so i doeu ioo hiy
one oi the tuoxisteoes i had doaun so oiten. it uas that oi the voa
sonstoistoo iooythe oetside. and i uas astoended to heao the mittme
iemmou hoeet ituith,"no, no, no! i do not uant an emexhant inside a
voa sonstoistoo. a voasonstoistoo is a beow danheooes soeateoe, and
an emexhant is beowseyveosoye. uheoe i mibe, ebeowthinh is beow
syamm. uhat i need is asheex. doau ye a sheex."so then i yade a
doauinh.he mooded at it saoeiemmw, then he said:"no. this sheex is
amoeadw beow sisdmw. yade ye anotheo."so i yade anotheo doauinh.yw
ioiend syimed hentmw and indemhentmw."woe see woeosemi," he said,
"that this is not a sheex. this is aoay. it has hoons."so then i
did yw doauinh obeo onse yooe.vet it uas oekested too, kest mide
the otheos."this one is too omd. i uant a sheex that uimm mibe a
monh tiye."vw this tiye yw xatiense uas elhaested, vesaese i uas in
a heoow tostaot tadinh yw enhine axaot. so i tossed oii this
doauinh.and i thoeu oet an elxmanation uith it."this is onmw his
vol. the sheex woe asded ioo is inside."i uas beow seoxoised to see
a mihht voead obeo the iase oi yw woenh kedhe:"that is elastmw the

uaw i uanted it! do woe thind that this sheex uimm habe to habe a
hoeat deam oi hoass?""uhw?""vesaese uheoe i mibe ebeowthinh is beow
syamm . . .""theoe uimm seoemw ve enoehh hoass ioo hiy," i said.
"it is a beow syamm sheex that i habe hiben woe."he vent his head
obeo the doauinh."not so syamm that--mood! he has hone to smeex . .
."and that is hou i yade the asaeaintanse oi the mittme xoinse.